README.md, before:

#ansible #devops #abi 

----

1. create an ansible role that creates an ec2 machine of type `t3.small` (make the OS ubuntu 22.04)
2. create an ansible role that installs wordpress along with all necessary configs
3. create an ansible role that installs mysql 8 on the same machine

-----
**Notes:**

- The 3 roles must be included in a play book called `wordpress.yml`
- The mysql role must include a cron that takes daily backup of all dbs
- We need a way to automatically delete or stop or start the machine (a separate role is suggested)
    
----
**Acceptance test**

1. when running the playbook wordpress.yml it should create an ec2 machine with a ready to use wordpress instance (print the machine ‘s IP on terminal as url)

2. the ec2 role and mysql role are independent , meaning if i need to install mysql only on amazon linux machine , it should work without issues

3. invoking a stop or start or delete using ansible role or using tags if you decide to just include tasks in ec2 role 

-----

**Extra**

- Create a role for prometheus and grafana that installs on the same wordpress ec2 machine and is accessible from internet using a sub uri
	- Ex: [http://192.168.1.5/grafana](http://192.168.1.5/grafana)

> So if you access [http://192.168.1.5](http://192.168.1.5) , it should open wordpress
And if you want to access grafana you should open [http://192.168.1.5/grafana](http://192.168.1.5/grafana)


- Make ansible create a CNAME record in Cloudflare for our machine

### Implementation Steps
1. [x] Export AWS credentials as env vars
1. [x] Setup Ansible Roles
2. [x] Finish EC2 role
3. [x] Finish MySQL role
4. [x] Finish Wordpress role
	1. [x] setup needed config files
5. [x] Finish EC2 start, stop, delete roles
6. [ ] Make MySQL role distro agnostic
7. [ ] Create prometheus and Grafana Role



## Notes
- To test connection: `ansible -i inventory.aws_ec2.yml all -m ping -u ubuntu`
- To run playbook: `ansible-playbook -i inventory.aws_ec2.yml wordpress.yml -u ubuntu`
- To stop ec2 instances: `ansible-playbook ec2_state.yml -e "ec2_action=stop"`
	- use `start, terminate` actions for needed actions


### Further Seach

- Search for a way to find when instance is ready instead of waiting for fixed amount of minutes (ec2 role)

Commit message:

update README: add aws setup

README.md, after:

#ansible #devops #abi 

----

1. create an ansible role that creates an ec2 machine of type `t3.small` (make the OS ubuntu 22.04)
2. create an ansible role that installs wordpress along with all necessary configs
3. create an ansible role that installs mysql 8 on the same machine

-----
**Notes:**

- The 3 roles must be included in a play book called `wordpress.yml`
- The mysql role must include a cron that takes daily backup of all dbs
- We need a way to automatically delete or stop or start the machine (a separate role is suggested)
    
----
**Acceptance test**

1. when running the playbook wordpress.yml it should create an ec2 machine with a ready to use wordpress instance (print the machine ‘s IP on terminal as url)

2. the ec2 role and mysql role are independent , meaning if i need to install mysql only on amazon linux machine , it should work without issues

3. invoking a stop or start or delete using ansible role or using tags if you decide to just include tasks in ec2 role 

-----

**Extra**

- Create a role for prometheus and grafana that installs on the same wordpress ec2 machine and is accessible from internet using a sub uri
	- Ex: [http://192.168.1.5/grafana](http://192.168.1.5/grafana)

> So if you access [http://192.168.1.5](http://192.168.1.5) , it should open wordpress
And if you want to access grafana you should open [http://192.168.1.5/grafana](http://192.168.1.5/grafana)


- Make ansible create a CNAME record in Cloudflare for our machine

### Implementation Steps
1. [x] Export AWS credentials as env vars
1. [x] Setup Ansible Roles
2. [x] Finish EC2 role
3. [x] Finish MySQL role
4. [x] Finish Wordpress role
	1. [x] setup needed config files
5. [x] Finish EC2 start, stop, delete roles
6. [ ] Make MySQL role distro agnostic
7. [ ] Create prometheus and Grafana Role


### Setup and Commands
- setup the `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_access_key_secret` using environment vars in the shell

```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='AK123'
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='abc123'
```


- To test connection: `ansible -i inventory.aws_ec2.yml all -m ping -u ubuntu`
- To run playbook: `ansible-playbook -i inventory.aws_ec2.yml wordpress.yml -u ubuntu`
- To stop ec2 instances: `ansible-playbook ec2_state.yml -e "ec2_action=stop"`
	- use `start, terminate` actions for needed actions

## Notes

### Further Seach

- Search for a way to find when instance is ready instead of waiting for fixed amount of minutes (ec2 role)

### Questions
- Best practices for storing state in Ansible
- Best practice to handle agnostic roles (`when`, tags, ...)
	- especially to handle
		- version conflicts
		- idempotent tasks
